Explanatory Variables: gdp, employment, growth in wages
10 years data, different industries, regression
Focus on share holder not denying others
Shareholder is the ultimate risk
Dividend : Profit after tax, share hodler get the residual
US comapnies - maximized share holder value, not denying other stake holders
8/10 USA companies- Mecenzie confirmed stake holder theory
2 Industries different results - Germany: Automobiles, Japan: Electronics 

BP-AMACO's vision: Satisfy long term (3-5) years sharehodler value
Companies should satisfy - long-term shareholder values not the spectators

Long-term growth value is our core and fundamental objective 
Cycle: Discipliend investment-(no time over, no cost over run, net benefits +ve) operational excellence, Industry leading returns - above industry avgs, superior chasflows (sustainable cash flow not volatile cash flow)
Dependence on external borrowers go down, maintain from internal cash

Contrast: Xerox :  stake holders approach - laundry list of objectives (4)
1. satisfy customers
2. satisfy employers
3. Increase market shares
4. More profits

bottomline : profit has gone down, satisfy 3/4 objectives, have you achived stake holder value maximization with 3/4 onjectives? No

Exoon/BPS golas - shareholder approach is better than Xerox

annual report: lack of confidence on the part of the CEO of the company. Unable to show better profitability. They can take refugee in other objectives.
               If it is more than one year proift loss, share holders can ask queries to the management. 

focuses on profits and focuses on shareholders - shareholder values approach

India: corporate objectives: Reliance Vision
1980/81 : reliance vision statement - no where they mentioned shareholder values
	  more networth (balance sheet value of equity) of equity
          No equity concept at that time, No NSE BSE started 1979
	  Improve your balanche sheet
	  hostile acuqisition -  No predator come and beat Reliance

1997/98: stock market has improved, NSE came, regulators came, 1994- SEBI came up with rule of hostile acuqisition acquire through market
	 shareholder value term is first time used
	 20% EPS, single minded shareholder value
	 20% shareholder value(equity)

2017/18: maximizing stakeholder values: employees, suppliers, customers, shareholders

	Main street is more important than wall street
	
Shared Value, Porter(HBR 2011) - another approach
--------------------------------------------------
not distributing value
one company - commercial and societal arms - giving back to the society
Tata Group

How do you maximize share holder value? what can you do as a manager of the company?
Value Pentagon
---------------
optimum value: desired value that mgmt wanted to have the value of the firm?
curr value > optimum value? over prices, stock is over valued.. try to sell them, trading of stock will go up
people sell stocks for liquidity reason - then people sell
current value is less than optimum value? large gap? how do you fill it?
3 ways - (To minimize the value gap)

1. Internal restructuring  - one way to improve the value
   L&T - inhouse companies - but unincorporated companies, not legal entities, created 7-9 inhouse companies (SBUs are converted into inhouse)
   subsidiary companies - legally they are separate entities
   Experiments : To create future leaderships. Has board, financial power, quarter meetings,agendas, prepare minutes. Performance of the unit,    Understanding compliances. LandT found that efficiency of the company/people is improved.
   debottlenecking
   optimizing operations - remove wastages, remove unnecssary investments, don't invest in dead assets
   Maximize revenue- asset turnover
   Optimize the cost - better than the industry avg cost
      
2. External restructuring - if value is not fully improved then go for this - take help of external organization
   Alliance, acuqire brand/unit, JV, MnA with other entity - increase balance sheet side
   One of the org's unit separately to outside  - split 
   
3. Financial engineering/restructuring - if there is some mild value gap then go for this
   To improve the quality of the balance sheet
   Look at liabailities and equity sides.
   Molecule and Miller - improve value with interal/external restructuring not with financial engg in 1950s
   			 Proved it wrong later
External structuring:

Asset restructuring:

L&T:
L&T sold cement and electricity business units.
Becoming smaller with smaller business untis,  you create more value. 
Why does it happen? because of diversification discount.
Market does not like one company doing different things
Share holder not sure the share price represent avg of the units, they don't understand.

Diversification Discount:
one company - 5 business units
over all performance of the firm.
	share prices - avg of the companies? they put discount on the price
Empricial study - global found that 15% discount if multiple business units usinf - SOTP (some of the perks method)
Look at the similar line of business agaisnt the individual business untis share prices using some comparable players

To unlock the value - separate the units. remove the discount

Benefits:
1. constitutes an internal capital market - obtining profits from some of the units to less performing units than going to banks
2. Equity Market don't like internal market - because it is inefficient - you don't price it correctly
3. Try to reduce the divers.. discount and maximize the firm value

Modes of asset disposition:
---------------------------
1. compelte disposition
	1. Important way is:  spin-off method ; eg: Reliance
	Spin-off(demerger): Strategic rationale - 8 points
		  Capital market implications
		  Implementation issues
	Indian Examples: Reliance, GOCL
	Unlocking the value: after demerger - shares of combined demrger can grow multiple times 
	2. Split-off - share holder may get the cash
        Graphene-L&T - Split-off
 	Share holder gets more shares in parent entity
	Original entity remains same in spin-off and split-off
	3. Split Up - existing break into 2 or more, original entity ceases to exist
           short term - 5.9
           90 days - 8.6
           year   -  31.6 
	4. Sell-off - company gets the money
			

2. partial disposition
   Equity carve out: subsidiary remains subsidiary ;In spin-off no more subsidiary
	Discover the price/valuation - in the market using carve out - testing in the market before selling 
	Milk the balance sheet before selling the entity to startegic investor
	VSNL - public Ltd company
	 750% dividend announced before selling to TATA group - Govt decided to take the money out
   pre-carve out diagram
	Primary offering
   post-carve out diagram
	Secondary offering

	primary offering is better and market loves to invest in this primary offering because of the transperance.
	Subsidiary pays the dividends based on performance of the subsidiary. Subsidiary IPO is known to the market.
        
	In secondary offering no transparaency to the market.
        Internal tunneling: Internal capital can transfer.move to other divisions  which are performing bad from subsidiary. It is not known to the market.	
  	Parent company controls the subsidiaries in both primary and secondary offerings
   	
3. Financial restructuring: Improve the quality of baalnce sheet- Improve the value of shareholder values
	Loss making company - improve balance hseet- cleaning up the balance sheets
	losses - write-off
	wasteful assets - dispose them
	valuable assets - write up - revalue them
	
	recomensate - haircut - waiving off loans - removes the losses side 
	unfund liabilities - get govt bonds by deferring for some years	  - removes the liabilities
	
	Deleveraging: repay the debt with available cash, issue shares and pay the debt
			debt is cheaper than equity
			If you have liquidity problem and unable to raise money, you will in trouble
			equity - promise -  no contractual obligation
			debt - obligated - contractual obligation
			environment is uncertain - raise equity and pay off the debt

	Meryll lynch survey
	deleverage the balance sheet- clear off the debt and improve the ratings
	
	debt restructuring - startegy driven - good days - less painful; prepay the debt, take fresh loans
			     crisis driven - crisis - painful - haircut
	
	Equity restructuring - paying : special dividend, shares buy back, stock splits, bonus shares
			       surplus cash - special dividend or buy back shares? buy back shares.
			       if shares are under valued company - surplus cash, it has to distribute shares to the share holders. which choice is better?
			       pay dividend - share price goes down
				buy back shares - sending a signal to the market that you are confident about the future.
				surplus cash to invest in their own shares - technical correction and siganl of strong confidence to indicate the best time to buy shares
				holding esop - stocks - then surplu cash - what do you do?
				here also share buy back. dividend - share price goes down
				debt equity goes up in dividends - 0.5 to 1:1
	According to Behavioural exonomics theory
	Investors always prefer dividends, they don't prepfer buyback. Two explanations
	dividends -self control theory - Richard taylors proposition - less self control in consumption. Companies should control the consumption pattern
		  - prospect theory  - kaneman proposition 
	
dAY2:
	Share repurchase and external financing
	Borrrow money from local US markets than outside (europe tax issue) and buy back shares
	Debt equity ratio goes up as debt is constant but equity reduces but regulations play a role. it should not exceed 2:1
	Buying back shares - tender offer outside exchange - SEBI rules - promoters did not participate 
	Eg:1 Akzo Nobel (tender offer)
	Eg:2 Britannia (from market, 2003)
		stated intention: Sending out not desired share holders by buing back shares
		Increasing stake in company - buy back shares; decrease in number of stake holders
		Real intention: Fear of taken away - increase stake in company
	why not dividends:  Special dividends:  dividends are sticky, expectation of shareholders go wrong
			    servicing number of share holders will remain same
	
	Bonus shares: no cash flow but 1:1 rewarding share holder? share price go down
		      short term effect: volume of trading goes up, demand goes up, share price goes up
		      long-term  effect: paying dividends- creates obligation to pay dividends in long term
		      face value remains same 		
Stock splits: face value get splits, value goes down, you will have more number of shares, but capital remains same
	      why do firm splits stocks? 10 rs share becomes 2 rs 5 shares in stock split. Nominal value is same.
		
		theory1: + signal to the mkt about their future prospects
			retail investors get the shares, promoters love to have retail investors as they don't ask questions unline institu.. investors
		reason for stock split; liquidity
		theory2: liquidity increases post split, not to send signal to the mkt

		Split vs Non-split:
		
		it does not support:
				ROI is reducing for both split vs non-split companies
				split firms are performing better than non-split firms
				Difference is significantly +ve
				Firms that perform better are preferred to split, post split it may continue as is 
				turnover of share increases

		Creating wealth for share holder in long run can improve rel. with share holders.

is there single indicator, which captures all 3 activities together? all three can be collapsed, highly correlatted with mkt value
		
Economic Value (EVA) added :  stan stuwards company, simple to implement, became very poular
			   Pizzeria story: 2 questions at the bottom of the story
			   
			   No economic surplus, as per book you made a profit
			   Opportunity cost: you consider profit only when you made economic profit (after opportunity cost)
			   compare accnting profit (Net operating profit after tax) with economic profit and earned more than the opportunity cost?
                           Economic proit/capital charge/opportunity cost = 1,000000- 82,750 = 18,250
			  

			Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) = EBIT (1-t)
							NOPAT = PnL, t - effective tax rate
					Capital (comes from balance sheet) = Invested capital = Net worth + Interest bearing debt - investments
					Alternatively, invested capital = Non-current assets + current assets  - current liabilities (other than short-term borrowing) - investments
			
			Not from Balance sheet

			C* (cost of capital) = minimum return you expect to earn 
						opportunity cost of the investment /required rate of return/hurdle rate
			Capital charged = minimum profit required

			EVA (economic value added) = NOPAT - Capital charged
			
			EVA = NOPAT- (C* Capital charged)
			EVA/capital = NOPAT/Capital - (C*Xcapital charged)/Capital
			EVA/Capital = ROI - C*
			EVA =  (ROI - C*)*Xcapital
			    = EVA spread	

			Destroying EVA = destroying eva share holder value
			
			EVA mirrors MVA within the firm
			
			EVA vs Other measures
			Standardized EVA, return on equity, most admired, Cash flow growth, EPS growth, Dividend growth, sales growth
			Single industry exhibit a correlation as high as 0.7 - 0.8 for EVA

Four fundamental strategies to improve EVA
			operate - improve the returns on caital
			build - invest as long as returns exceed the cost of capital
			harvest - divest capital when the returns fail to achive the cost of the capital
			optimize - reduce cost of capital by optimizing capital structure

EVA Leverage Factor -  the expected deviation of EVA from the average EVA 
		    - The leverage factor actually measures the volatality of industry returns

EVA-linked compensation and performance awards
			company performance factor = 1.00 + (actual EVA - target EVA)/ Leverage factor
			individual performance factor

Example companies where EVA is - ve:

Enron :  Focus was on earnings and EPS
	 EVA profit was crashing
Worldcom : EVA was negative

Capital Budgeting: Long term investment decision
		
capital budgeting: analysis of potential additions to fixed assets
		   long-term decisions invlove larger expenditures
		   very important to firm's future

Issues in ivnestement in Infrastructure: irreversible, longer gestation period, demand side risks, role of regulators, taxation issues
Stages in capital budgeting: capital budgeting is an ongoing process
		1. Investment screening and selection
		2. Capital budget proposal
		3. Budgeting approval and authoriation
		4. Project tracking
		5. Post-completion audit
Financial appraisal tools
		1. accounting rate of return
		2. payback method
		3. discounted payback method
		4. NPV
			Incremental after-tax cash flows
			CFAT = EBIT - Tax + depreciation  and amortization - CapitalEx - (CA(excl. short investments)-CL(excl borrowings))
			CA = current assets
			CL = current liabilities
			NPV break even where NPV = cost
			npv =0 AT K is called IRR, gives you 0 NPV

			NPV fails when limitation in capital constraint - funds not available
		5. IRR
			Project IRR
			Equity IRR
		6. Profitablity Index
			PI = NPV (all cash inflows subsequent to the initial ivnestment)/initial investment
			PI = PV of benefits / PV of costs
			PI is useful for capital rationing otherwise we use NPV
			accept investment only when PI > 1.0
payback period: project cost recovery period
		adv: indication of project's risk and liquidity
		     easy to calculate and understand
		dis: ignores CFs after payback period, ignores TVM.	
discounted payback: Uses discounted rather than the raw CFs

capital rationing: used when many projects has +ve NPA but no funds available. this can be solved using linear programming
		  
Capital budgeting and Risk analysis:
-----------------------------------
sensitivity analysis - what if analysis: change one variable at a time keeping others constant
demand -  what if demand falls by 5%
selling price - 350 - falls by 5%
raw material cost - 190 - up by 5%

base case IRR - 17%
revised IRR -14% , down by 3% due to changes in demand fall 5%
revised IRR - 3% ,  down by 14% due to change in selling price by 5%
revised IRR - 6%   ,  down by 11% due to up by 5% in raw materials

selling price is more sensitive - what do you do to make porject finacnially viable?
				1. look at cost side - talk to suppliers, make agreements based on selling price. pass costs partly to vendors/suppliers
Demand is more sensitive - goes down : what you would have done..  
				1. cost is bottom line .  play volume game (sign long term volume contract and offer volume discount and satisfy 50% of your capacity) with potential customers.

scenario analysis: effects many variables at a time
	scenario1: gdp growth - 5%
	scenario2: gdp growth - 15%
	scenario3: gdp growth - -ve %
	Capex - more sensitive variable than Opex variable
	Fixed price contract is the startaegy to handle the Capex sensitive varaible

simulation analysis - Monte carlo simulation	- iBall software	
	many variables
	provide range of values to these variables (crude price) -  20-40
	Run simulation - 10k runs and get cash flows
	Run1: Cash flow of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, ... 25th year -  CF1
	Run2: some other range of prices  -  CF2
	..
	Run25:  ,,,                       -  CF25
	Take avergae (expected value, avg of 10k CF1s), standard deviation, coeeficients of variation
	
	Expected NPV = ??
	
	
		
Day 3: Financial decisions making
	Source of funds
	credit rating, minimze defaulting
	Case analysis: Bians Dept profile changed	 - future group
			replaced public debt with private debt 	
			saved from default in redemption
			went to the private market , raised money and paid the public debt			
			not saving costs. not seen as defaulter
			Reasons: Most of the bedt got it from public institutions, as security to the debt, they did not promise the lands.
			They pledged the shares of the promoters hold and also pldedged the investments made in other blue chip companies to the banks
			The mkt value of shares should be more than the debt for pledging
			The value of the pldedged shares have been going down. Bank says return the money
			More security cover - value of shares should be double than the loan
			Biayani Pledged shares to pvt market

	How to get funds?
	
	Cost of capital: K
	Opportunity cost of capital/hurdle rate/Minimum expected return (C*)
	K is not same for all business units in a single company - expected return varies from one business to another
	
	K is function of (Business level risk and Financial Risk)
	
	Estimation of following 3 
	1. source of capital
	2. Respective weights of debt and equity
	3. Cost of each source
			
	
	1. cost of debt - historical cost - does not tell what rate company can borrow in next year
		a. Direct approach: from the PnL and Balance sheet calculate 
				The avg borrowing cost = interest expense / avg orrowing durin the year
				Expected cost of Debt E(Kd) = Rf + DRP
					where Rf - risk free rate of return
					      DRP - default risk premium 
					      DRP  is a function of credit rating of the borrower
					10 year debt? RF = 10 year GOI Bond yield	
		b. Weighted Avg method: 		
			  
	2. Cost of equity (CAPM) - is never an explicit cost but always the opportunity cost
			  - is the expectation of marginal equity investor
			 
		what is your equity Beta?
				Stock Market Index - market portpolio index
				Sensitivity of a stock's return to the return on the stock market portpolio

				E(Ke) = Rf + Beta * Market Risk Premium (MRP)
				MRP = E(RM) - Rf   ( using historical data of more than one year 15-20 years data)

				Beta = Cov (Ri, RM) / Var (RM) =  sigmai ^2/ sigmaM ^2
				
		Look at average beta estimates of comparable firms in the industry
		Betas are generally stable for firms remaining in the same industry.
		Betas can change due to 
				Changes in product line
				Changes in technology
				Deregulation
				Changes in financial leverage
		Firms Beta vs Industry Beta (similarity in operations in industries - industry Beta, otherwise firm Beta)
		1. Highly cyclical stocks have higher betas
		2. The degree of operating leverage: measures how sensitive a firm (or project) is to its fixed costs. 
			a. Operating leverage increases as fixed costs rise and variable costs fall.
			b. Operating leverage magnifies the effect of cyclicality on beta.
			The degree of operating leverage is given by
				DOL = Delta EBIT/EBIT * Delta Sales/ Sales
			
		Beta Asset =  (Debt/Debt + Equity ) *Beta-Debt + (Equity/Debt + Equity ) *Beta-Equity
		
		Financial leverage always increases the equity beta relative to the asset beta
		
		unlever Beta = equity Beta / (1+D/E)
		Relever Beta = unlever Beta * ( 1 + D/E)
		
				    	


					 		


